	The premise of “Colossal” would be hilarious even if it didn’t
work so well: Hard-drinking Gloria (Anne Hathaway) gets dumped by her
boyfriend after one too many rough nights out; in a funk, she returns
to her hometown and discovers that her movements in a small park
control a giant kaiju monster in Seoul with the ability to steamroll
an entire city. (Read it again if you must.) When Gloria moves her
arms, a huge reptilian beast follows suit; she stomps around in the
wood chips, she crushes skyscrapers. And she’s not the only the local
to discover this power. A hilarious monster movie in miniature,
“Colossal” wrestles its absurd premise into a clever and frequently
hilarious riff on moody young adults trapped by their insecurities.
Needless to say, there’s a lot more happening on the human level here
than anything found in “Pacific Rim.”

	The peculiar genre-twisting set-up for “Colossal” should come as
no surprise to anyone familiar with the work of Spanish director
Nacho Vigalondo, whose brilliant “Timecrimes” delivered one of the
best time travel plots of all time, with only a handful of characters
orbiting an increasingly convoluted timeline; similarly, Vigalondo’s
“Extraterrestrial” turned an alien invasion story into a minimalist
romcom between a handful of survivors holed up in their apartment.
“Colossal” features a few bigger names and some decent special
effects, but it’s otherwise consistent with this inventive director’s
anarchic approach, which dares to blur the lines between silliness
and genuine behavior.


	When Gloria first arrives home, she’s confronted by old childhood
acquaintance Oscar (Jason Sudeikis), a grinning alcoholic who runs
the grimy local pub. Though Oscar and his drinking pals (Tim Blake
Nelson and Austin Stowell) welcome another member of their crew,
Gloria drifts in and out of the picture, regularly crashing in the
neighborhood park. When she wakes up one day to find that a giant
beast ran blindly through Seoul, she starts to get suspicious; a few
tests later and she’s horrified. But “Colossal” really kicks into
high gear once Gloria invites Oscar and company into her strange
secret, and discovers that at least one of them shows up in Seoul
alongside her mammoth beast…as a giant robot. When the robot wreaks
havoc just to pass the time, Gloria decides to take a stand. The
stage is set for an epic kaiju showdown — or a brawl between drunken
losers in a sleepy town, take your pick. “Colossal” has it both ways.